KGEC Group-D (Sayan Nandi, Arkajyoti Bhattacharya, Aniket Chakrabarty, Shuvranshu Khanra, Aman Kumar Singh)
Customer Churn Analysis


1> Who will use / how this prediction will add value ?
Ans: The churn rate(or, attrition rate) measures the number of individuals or items moving out of a collective group over a specific period.
    It is related to the business case of customers that stop buying from us. Market saturation is quite evident in the SaaS(Software as a Service)
    market, there are always plenty of alternatives for any SaaS product. Studying the churn rate can help with Knowing-Your-Customer(KYC) and
    effective retention and marketing strategies for subscription-driven businesses. 

2> Define +ve case /-ve case(classification)(explanation must be domain specific) ?
Ans: 'Churn' translates to revenue loss via customer cancellation. So churned(1) customer is a loss i.e. negetive(-ve) case from business perspective.
    The customers who are not churned(0) will not stop buying or, using our product are positive(+ve) case here. If we can predict which customers
    are going to be churned  in advance, we can provide them several offers to retain those customers.

3> what metric is appropriate(accuracy,recall,precision,etc) ?
Ans: Here we need to identify the customers who are going to be churned. If we wrongly predict a churned customer as non-churned it will be a great 
    loss, as we will loose that customer. If we wrongly predict a non-churned customer as churned then it will not be a great loss. So we need to
    reduce wrong prediction of -  churned(1) -> not churned(0) i.e. (False Negative) 
                instead of -  not churned(0) -> churned(1) i.e. (False Positive)
    So, here recall metric will be more appropriate.

4> Is data file in CSV format ? what is separator? (can "read_csv" be used to open file?)
Ans: Yes, data file is in CSV format.
    A file separator is a character that is used to separate directory names that make up a path to a particular location. This character is operating
    system specific. On Microsoft Windows, it is a back-slash(/) character.
    Yes, "read_csv" can be used to open the file.

5> Header  present ? are column names are code frainedly? 
Ans: Yes, headers are present.
    Yes, column names are short and code friendly.


Following answers must be given after opening the file in PANDAS

6> How many rows and columns present in the file ?
Ans: There are 3333 rows and 21 columns in the file.

7> Check which column has null(na)(percentage)[IMPORTANT]
Ans: No column has any null value.

8> Find your X and y(target) ?
Ans: Our y(target) is 'label'.
    Our X is = ['st', 'acclen', 'arcode', 'phnum', 'intplan', 'voice', 'nummailmes',
       'tdmin', 'tdcal', 'tdchar', 'temin', 'tecal', 'tecahr', 'tnmin',
       'tncal', 'tnchar', 'timin', 'tical', 'tichar', 'ncsc']

9> How many numeric and categorical(string)
   -in all numeric which are discrete / continuous
Ans: There are 16 numerical columns and 4 categorical columns.
    We found that numeric columns - 'arcode'(area code), 'ncsc'(no. of customer services calls) are having 3 and 10 unique entries.
    So we can consider 'arcode' as discrete column and append it to categorical columns and remove it from numeric columns.

10> For all categorical , find there labels
Ans: There are three labels of categorical variables- binary, nominal and ordinal.
    After appending 'arcode' to categorical columns we have 5 categorical columns- 
    (i)'st'(state) is Nominal variable as there is no order among them,
    (ii)'phnum'(phone number) is also Nominal variable,
    (iii)'intplan'(internet plan) is a Binary variable as it has only yes/no outcomes,
    (iv)'voice'(voice) is also a Binary variable,
    (v)'arcode'(area code) is a Ordinal variable as these are groups that are ranked in specific order.
11> in classification : distribution of y ( how many 1 and 0)
Ans: In classification : there are 2850(0/False.) and 483(1/True.) values in the distribution of y i.e. 'label'. 
    85.5%(False.) and 14.5%(True.), so definitely there is no class imbalance.

12> are all continuous columns have same scale ?
Ans: No, all numeric continuous columns are not having same scale.